_drafts/2015-04-02-continuous-deployment-strategies.md, before:

---
layout: post
title:  Continuous Deployment Strategies
date:   2015-04-02
author: Ketan Padegaonkar
categories: article deployments
---

Not very long ago, during in the days of Perl/CGI and PHP (even today); deployments involved *ftp*ing your files to the webserver directory and running a bunch of migrations by shelling into the webserver.

Modern webapps and application servers have evolved quite a bit since then but a lot of developers continue to use a similar strategy to perform deployments. FTP is replaced by `git pull` followed by `bundle install` or `npm install` and restart the appserver that you use.

# Snowflake Servers

While this approach may work great for small webapps, it quickly falls apart when you're managing anything but a couple of servers.

It is generally difficult to setup a new server should your existing server has problems. If you're looking to scale by adding more servers, it is difficult to keep each server's software, configuration and services in sync. You may not be in a position to replicate a production (or production like) environment for testing.

Over time, one looses track of the magic configuration files, packages and services that are installed on the production machines.

Such servers are what are commonly known as [Snowflake Servers](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/SnowflakeServer.html).

# Phoenix Servers

Some these issues can be addressed by using a bit of configuration management tools like [chef](https://www.chef.io/), [puppet](https://puppetlabs.com/), [ansible](http://www.ansible.com/home) among a few others.

These tools help avoid configuration drift - the sort of one-off changes that go unnoticed, undocumented.

An important point to note is that these tools only apply configuration that they are asked to. If one were to apply any additional configuration outside of what these tools are aware of - you're out of luck.

A much better alternative is to tear down servers periodically and apply configuration changes every once in a while. This helps avoid and catch any configuration drift outside of configuration management tools.

# How does this apply to Continuous Deployment

Continuous Deployment requires that at a very minimum, you have -
* a solid foundation of tests that gives you confidence in your software
* a set of automation tools and scripts that give you confidence that your deployment will succeed, or rollback in case of issues.

In this article, we'll talk a bit about some of the more popular continuous deployment strategies and we will follow up with some more articles detailing some implementation techniques for each of them.

# Blue/Green deployments

This is one of the simplest CD strategies to implement and get started with.

![blue green](/assets/images/screenshots/cd-strategies/blue-green.png){: .screenshot .big}

Blue/green is a technique for deployments where the existing running deployment is left in place. A new version of the application is installed in parallel with the existing version. When the new version is ready, cut over to the new version by changing the load balancer configuration.

This makes rollback really simple and gives time to make sure that the new version is works as expected before putting it live.

# Canary Releases

This is named after the "canary in a coal mine" metaphor. The metaphor originates from the times when miners used to carry caged canaries while in the mine, if there were any dangerous gases (methane or carbon monoxide) in the mine, the canary would die before the levels of the gas reached levels that could be hazardous to humans.

![canary releases](/assets/images/screenshots/cd-strategies/canary.png){: .screenshot .big}

Canary releasing is similar to blue/green, although only a small amount of the servers are upgraded. Then, using a cookie or similar, a fraction of users are directed to the new version.

This allows for the load and functionality of the site can be tested with a small group of users. If the application behaves as expected, migrate more and more servers to the new version until all the users are on the new version.

This technique can also be used to do some interesting multi-variant testing and performance testing.

Commit message:

Add obligatory accumulator antipattern by Ranjib

_drafts/2015-04-02-continuous-deployment-strategies.md, after:

---
layout: post
title:  Continuous Deployment Strategies
date:   2015-04-02
author: Ketan Padegaonkar
categories: article deployments
---

Not very long ago, during in the days of Perl/CGI and PHP (even today); deployments involved *ftp*ing your files to the webserver directory and running a bunch of migrations by shelling into the webserver.

Modern webapps and application servers have evolved quite a bit since then but a lot of developers continue to use a similar strategy to perform deployments. FTP is replaced by `git pull` followed by `bundle install` or `npm install` and restart the appserver that you use.

# Snowflake Servers

While this approach may work great for small webapps, it quickly falls apart when you're managing anything but a couple of servers.

It is generally difficult to setup a new server should your existing server has problems. If you're looking to scale by adding more servers, it is difficult to keep each server's software, configuration and services in sync. You may not be in a position to replicate a production (or production like) environment for testing.

Over time, one looses track of the magic configuration files, packages and services that are installed on the production machines.

Such servers are what are commonly known as [Snowflake Servers](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/SnowflakeServer.html).

# Phoenix Servers

Some these issues can be addressed by using a bit of configuration management tools like [chef](https://www.chef.io/), [puppet](https://puppetlabs.com/), [ansible](http://www.ansible.com/home) among a few others.

These tools help avoid configuration drift - the sort of one-off changes that go unnoticed, undocumented.

An important point to note is that these tools only apply configuration that they are asked to. If one were to apply any additional configuration outside of what these tools are aware of -- or -- if one were to forget to unapply or remove some configuration, you're out of luck. This what [Ranjib Dey](https://github.com/ranjib) calls the [Accumulator Anti-Pattern](http://server.dzone.com/articles/infrastructure-tooling-anti).

A much better alternative is to tear down servers periodically and apply configuration changes every once in a while. This helps avoid and catch any configuration drift outside of configuration management tools.

# How does this apply to Continuous Deployment

Continuous Deployment requires that at a very minimum, you have -
* a solid foundation of tests that gives you confidence in your software
* a set of automation tools and scripts that give you confidence that your deployment will succeed, or rollback in case of issues.

In this article, we'll talk a bit about some of the more popular continuous deployment strategies and we will follow up with some more articles detailing some implementation techniques for each of them.

# Blue/Green deployments

This is one of the simplest CD strategies to implement and get started with.

![blue green](/assets/images/screenshots/cd-strategies/blue-green.png){: .screenshot .big}

Blue/green is a technique for deployments where the existing running deployment is left in place. A new version of the application is installed in parallel with the existing version. When the new version is ready, cut over to the new version by changing the load balancer configuration.

This makes rollback really simple and gives time to make sure that the new version is works as expected before putting it live.

# Canary Releases

This is named after the "canary in a coal mine" metaphor. The metaphor originates from the times when miners used to carry caged canaries while in the mine, if there were any dangerous gases (methane or carbon monoxide) in the mine, the canary would die before the levels of the gas reached levels that could be hazardous to humans.

![canary releases](/assets/images/screenshots/cd-strategies/canary.png){: .screenshot .big}

Canary releasing is similar to blue/green, although only a small amount of the servers are upgraded. Then, using a cookie or similar, a fraction of users are directed to the new version.

This allows for the load and functionality of the site can be tested with a small group of users. If the application behaves as expected, migrate more and more servers to the new version until all the users are on the new version.

This technique can also be used to do some interesting multi-variant testing and performance testing.
