_drafts/2015-04-15-Continuous-Delivery-Is-A-Journey.md, before:

---
layout: post
title:  "Continuous Delivery is Not a Destination"
date:   2015-04-15
author: Badri Janakiraman (?)
categories: announcements
---

![](/assets/images/screenshots/CDDestination.png){: .screenshot .big}

Snap's product owner Badri Janakiraman and developer [Akshay Karle](https://github.com/akshaykarle) were at the [Pipelines annual conference](http://web.pipelineconf.info/) last month, talking about why continuous delivery should be a journey, not a destination. Although it certainly would be easier if one could just do step 1, step 2, etc, and achieve continuous delivery, it's more complex than that and really should be a set of principles that informs tool choices, systems architecture, and development practices. Here are a few key points from the talk:

-- Start with getting working software into hands of users 

-- Don’t be afraid of “re-design”/”re-work” 

-- Layer on qualities of reliability, automation, frequent releases, etc.

You can see slides from the talk [here](https://pipelineconf.files.wordpress.com/2014/03/badri-akshay-cd-is-a-journey2015.pdf).

Commit message:

add text, add video embed
add GitHub link, fix broken image

_drafts/2015-04-15-Continuous-Delivery-Is-A-Journey.md, after:

---
layout: post
title:  "Continuous Delivery is Not a Destination"
date:   2015-04-15
author: Jen Marley
categories: announcements
---

![](/assets/images/screenshots/badri-akshay-pipieline.png){: .screenshot .big}

Snap's product owner [Badri Janakiraman](https://github.com/badrij) and developer [Akshay Karle](https://github.com/akshaykarle) were at the [Pipelines annual conference](http://web.pipelineconf.info/) last month, talking about why continuous delivery should be a journey, not a destination. Although it certainly would be easier if one could just do step 1, step 2, etc, and achieve continuous delivery, it's more complex than that and really should be a set of principles that informs tool choices, systems architecture, and development practices. Here are a few key points from the talk:

-- Start with getting working software into hands of users 

-- Don’t be afraid of “re-design”/”re-work” 

-- Layer on qualities of reliability, automation, frequent releases, etc.

-- Kick the can down the road.

You can see slides from the talk [here](https://pipelineconf.files.wordpress.com/2014/03/badri-akshay-cd-is-a-journey2015.pdf) or watch the video the talk below. 

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/124285970" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe> <p><a href="https://vimeo.com/124285970">Badrinath Janakiraman &amp; Akshay Karle - Continuous Delivery: A Value System, Not A Destination - PIPELINE Conference 2015</a> from <a href="https://vimeo.com/softwarepractice">Software Engineering Practice</a> on <a href="https://vimeo.com">Vimeo</a>.</p>
